[Music]
so what do you think the largest the
longest the hottest the loudest yes I am
all of those thank you very much
don't wait actually nature provides
people with all kinds of extreme things
which are super fun to compare what's
the fastest planet in the solar system
how old is the most ancient volcano on
earth well let's find out the giraffe
has the longest tail of all land mammals
it can grow up to eight feet but the
Asian grass lizard will win the tail
competition hands down of course if we
talk about the body length versus tail
length ratio the tiny reptile has a 10
inch long tail and is three times the
length of its body the shortest animal
tail hasn't been officially estimated
yet but it might very likely be the Manx
cats these kitties tails can be tiny
stubs or even non-existent depending on
the genes the largest organ in your body
is your skin it makes up almost sixteen
percent of your body mass the average
adult carries some eight pounds of it
that's just a bit less than a well-fed
domestic cat the smallest organ is the
pineal gland near the centre of your
brain this tiny endocrine gland is
shaped like a pinecone
hence the name and weighs less than a
raindrop it produces melatonin a hormone
that controls your wake and sleep cycles
and since we've started on the body
topic the longest muscle you have runs
down the length of your upper thigh it
can be twenty inches long the shortest
muscle in your body is in your middle
ear as wide as a grain of sand it helps
to protect your inner ear from loud
noises like me oh and it makes your own
voice not so thunderous in your head the
biggest planet in our solar system is
Jupiter
this gas giants diameter is 11 times
that of Earth and its mass is two and a
half times the mass of all the other
planets in the solar system combined
since Pluto lost his official planetary
status mercury became the smallest
planet in the solar system the thing is
just a bit bigger than the moon oh by
the way if you lived on Mercury you'd
celebrate your birthday every three
months the planet orbits the Sun much
faster than Earth
the coldest star astronomers know about
is 75 light-years away from us it's a
brown dwarf also known as a failed star
the star surface is no warmer than a
freshly made cup of coffee just 206
degrees Fahrenheit the hottest star that
people know about is close to becoming a
supernova
it's 9800 light-years away from us which
is very very far away the incredible
star is heated up to almost 380 thousand
degrees Fahrenheit meanwhile back on
earth the world's largest living frog is
the Goliath frog often called the giant
slippery frog the creature can weigh
more than seven pounds more than an
adult Chihuahua the tiniest frog on the
planet lives in Papua New Guinea the 0.3
inch long animal is also considered the
world's smallest known vertebrate
if you have arachnophobia which is the
fear of spiders you might feel better if
you skip the next point just put your
hands over your ears
everybody else ready okay because the
biggest spider ever discovered is as big
as a dinner plate the Goliath birdeater
is a type of tarantula that lives in
northern South America okay done with
spiders you can come back now the
largest bird known to people is the now
extinct elephant bird it grew ten feet
tall and weighed more than 1,000 pounds
unfortunately the last representatives
of this curious species disappeared 300
years ago the world's smallest bird is
the bee hummingbird it's so itsy-bitsy
that you're likely to mistake it for a
flying insect blue whales give birth to
the biggest babies in the world
little ones spent a year growing inside
their mothers first after being born
they already weigh three tons and are 25
feet long the calves eat nothing but
mom's milk and get 200 pounds heavier
every single day the giant pandas babies
are the tiniest mammal newborns but only
if you compare them to their mother's
size panda moms are usually nine hundred
times larger than their cubs a baby
weighs no more than three and a half
ounces most scientists agreed that the
world's oldest active volcano might be
Mount Etna on Sicily the first volcanic
activity started in that region half a
million years ago
Mount Etna is also one of the biggest
volcanoes on earth the world's youngest
volcano that we know about is parícutin
in Mexico it appeared all of a sudden in
the middle of a cornfield in 1943 in his
first year the volcano's cone rose 1500
feet from its base the giant armadillo
is the two theists mammal on land it's
74 teeth may not seem that impressive
but it's a lot for us mammals for one of
the least toothy species on earth but
some shark species leave armadillos far
behind during their lifetime they can
grow and shed 30,000 teeth blue whales
have no teeth at all they have 270 to
400 comb-like plates on either side of
their jaw it's called baleen they help
the animal to catch small creatures that
make up the whales diet if you can
believe that the hottest thing on earth
is the planet's core itself scientists
have recently discovered that it's even
hotter than they thought before ten
thousand eight hundred degrees
Fahrenheit it's almost a thousand
degrees hotter than the Sun surface but
several years ago physicists managed to
break this record they heated a piece of
aluminum up to 3.6 million degrees
Fahrenheit it was the hottest thing on
earth for a brief moment the coldest
thing on the planet was a chunk of
copper researchers chilled it to six
thousandths of a degree above absolute
zero really chilling the fastest
spinning planet in our solar system is
Jupiter a day there lasts just 10 earth
hours and if you could wrap a string
around Jupiter's equator with more
string stretching out into space towards
Saturn you'd have a really big yo-yo and
the slowest spinning planet is Venus it
needs 243 days to complete its rotation
and since Venus spends 225 days to orbit
the Sun a day on this planet is longer
than a year the highest concert ever
took place at just a bit more than
21,000 feet in Nepal in 2012 the main
purpose of this concert was to raise
funds for charity I heard it was
breathtaking literally the world's
deepest concert was organized
underground it happened about 6,000 feet
below sea level in a nipple mining
Canada the loudest mammal on earth is
bright sides narrator no just kidding
he's just the most annoying the loudest
is the blue whale you'll hear this
animal from 100 miles away
it's calls reach 188 decibels
it's louder than a rock concert or
fireworks it's even noisier than a space
shuttle launch such events are usually
165 to 170 decibels should I say it's a
whale of a sound well I did anyway the
loudest land animal is the howler monkey
the sounds the animal produces can reach
88 decibels that's the sound of a
working bulldozer or a jazz concert the
quietest animal on earth might be the
owl when the bird is flying toward his
potential dinner it doesn't produce any
sound the most common letter in the
English language is e and the least
frequent letters are Q and Z the most
common word is the article v as for the
least common how about the longest
English word which is the chemical name
of tinton the largest known protein it
consists of 189 thousand eight hundred
and nineteen letters this because it
consists of over thirty four thousand
amino acids so the
name of the protein names all the amino
acids in order
somebody recorded at once took him more
than three hours to do it the slowest
musical composition in the world is
supposed to last 639 years an organ in
Germany started playing as slow as
possible in 2001 and will finish in 2640
I think I'll wait for it to post on
YouTube the fastest melody was probably
created by a professional pianist
Antonio Dominguez at least he got to the
Guinness World Records for making 824
piano key strikes in one minute the
fastest land animal is the cheetah the
wild cats speed can reach 75 miles per
hour but only for a short period of time
about 30 seconds but if we talk about
the fastest living creature its the
peregrine falcon when the bird is
skydiving its speed can be higher than
200 miles per hour it's as fast as a
high speed train the slowest mammal on
earth is the three-toed sloth this
unhurried creature can only move at a
speed of 0.003 miles per hour shall I
say that again
no okay hey if you learn something no
today then give the video a like and
share it with a friend and here are some
other videos I think you'll enjoy just
click to the left or right and remember
stay on the bright side of life
[Music]